Basic Linux Commands

1. ls it's used to display a list of files and sub-directories in the current
directory

Options Description
ls -a
list all files including hidden file starting with '.'.
ls -d
list directories - with ' */'.
ls -l
list with long format - show permissions.
ls -F
Append indicator (one of */=>@|) to entries.
ls -lh
This command will show you the file sizes in human readable format.
ls -r
list in reverse order.
ls -i
list file's inode(index) number.
ls -ltr
View Reverse Output Order by Date.
ls -t
sort by time & date.
ls -n
It is used to print group ID and owner ID instead of their names.
ls -m
A list of entries separated by commas should fill the width.
ls -g
This allows you to exclude the owner and group information columns.
ls -q

Force printing of non-graphic characters in file names as the character `?';.

ls -Q

Place double quotations around the entry names.

2. Man- the manual pages of the command.
3. Cd Change directory
4. Echo file name ---- to create the file

5. Cat > file name --- to write the contents , press ctrl+d to get
out
6. Touch- to create a file and change the timetamp of file with various
options
Can create more than one file
Touch file1 file 2
Can create array of files
Touch filenew{1..10}
Touch filenew{a..e}
7. mkdir & rmdir — Use the mkdir command when you need to create a folder
or a directory.

For example, if you want to make a directory called “DIY”, then you can type “mkdir DIY”.
Remember, as told before, if you want to create a directory named “DIY Hacking”, then you can
type “mkdir DIY\ Hacking”.

8.Use rmdir to delete a directory. But rmdir can only be used to delete an empty
directory.

To delete a directory containing files, use rm.

9. rm - Use the rm command to delete files and directories. Use "rm -r" to delete
just the directory. It deletes both the folder and the files it contains when using
only the rm command.

10. cp — Use the cp command to copy files through the command line.

It takes two arguments:

The first is the location of the file to be copied, the second is where to copy.

11. mv — Use the mv command to move files through the command line.
We can also use the mv command to rename a file.
For example, if we want to rename the file “text” to “new”, we can use “mv text new”.
It takes the two arguments, just like the cp command.

12. grep: The 'grep' command stands for "global regular expression print".
grep command filters the content of a file which makes our search easy.

It is a command-line utility to search plain-text data groups for lines that are the same
as a regular expression. The name "grep" comes from the command, i.e., ed, which
contains the same effect. Originally, grep was designed for the Unix operating system,
but it became available for every Unix-like system later and a few others like OS 9.
The grep filter finds a file for a specific character pattern and shows every line that
includes that pattern. Characters should be in quotation marks if they occur in the
pattern parameter with a special meaning for the shell. Usually, we must enclose the
whole pattern in one quotation mark if the pattern parameter is not a common string.
In an expression like [a-z], the minus sign (-) cml describes a range based on the current
collating order. A collating order may specify equivalent classes in character ranges for
use. The grep command assumes stdin when no files are mentioned.
The pattern is called the regular expression that is found inside the file. The pattern is
restricted regular expressions in the format of the egrep or ed command. The grep

command applies a solid non-deterministic algorithm. It comes in handy when we need
to filter large log files.

How to install grep in Linux?
Grep comes pre-installed in almost every distribution of Linux. However, in case, we can
install it with the below command in the terminal window if it is missing from our
system:
1. $ sudo apt-get install grep

grep with pipe
1. command | grep <searchWord>
Example:
1. cat marks.txt | grep 9

grep without pipe
It can be used without pipe also.
Syntax:
1. grep <searchWord> <file name>
Example:
1. grep 9 marks.txt

grep options

o

grep -vM: The 'grep -v' command displays lines not matching to the specified
word.
Syntax:

1. grep -v <searchWord> <fileName>
Example:
1. grep -v 9 marks.txt

13.

13. FIND : The find command is used to search for and locate
a list of files and directories based on the conditions you
specify, matching the arguments.

14. IFCONFIG : The ifconfig command prints an
output when executed without arguments or with the
interface name only. If used with arguments, there is no
output.

Variation in Ifconfig command:
a)

HOW TO ENTER IN ROOT DIRECTORY INSTEAD OF CURRENT
--: USING sudo –i

Root password changed from
Sudo passwd root
(abc@123 given)

>>>> To add new user

>> To add group

Chown command:
The main command for changing ownership is chown. It
allows users to change user and group ownership both

for files and for directories. We’ll go over the chown
syntax below:
chown [OPTION] OWNER[:GROUP] FILE(s)
e.g
chown username filename

chown user1 file1.txt

Chgrp to change group ownership

To enter in particular user from root

